welcome to the man of recaps this is His
Dark Materials the season 1 finale
episode 8 Sol IRAs made it to her
father's science cabin in the Arctic
she's really excited to connect with a
cool heretic Explorer dad but he's like
really cold and distant to her call
yourself a father I think that's really
the point I've never called myself a
father
Lyra takes a sad bath and her friend
Roger comes to comfort her it's really
cute that he's walking backwards you
know to not see you naked and his demons
doing it too Rogers just a really really
nice good kid now Lord boreal goes back
to the Magisterium Sally Thea ha meter
reader he asked him a few episodes ago
what professor groomin found in his
travels between worlds and the answer
gives him is a knife in a tower
surrounded by angels boreal finds his
one dead henchman that wills cat killed
last episode he really Birds his other
henchman and they don't fully explain
who these guys even are how he hired
them he's he paying the money or like
promises of wealth in another world and
meanwhile will spends the episode
hanging around hiding from the police
cuz yeah I guess he just technically
killed a guy Lord Asriel wakes up Lyra
in the middle of the night now we do get
some true explanation about dust and
what he's up to and as it sort of been
hinted the Magisterium thinks that dust
is a physical manifestation of sin they
believe it goes back to Adam and Eve
stuff you know eating the Apple at the
original sin but as reals like you know
that kind of sounds like a load of BS he
wants to find out what dust truly is and
where it comes from
turns out it's coming through the aurora
borealis from other worlds his plan is
to open a portal and go find out for
himself but to do that he needs to
sacrifice poor Roger
yeah cutting a kid from his demon
releases a huge burst of energy that he
needs sell IRA jumps on your ex back and
races off to rescue her friend but just
then it's the Magisterium coming out in
full force with their fleet of airships
and Shock Troopers York rounds up his
bears and they have a big airship Bear
battle how can the Bears fight airships
Yusei turns out they have artillery
cannons okay Lyra makes it to the top
just too late her father Lord Asriel who
seems like a good guy
is actually going through with it oh he
severs Roger and boom Oh bolt of light
look at that after a bit it calms down
and sort of settles into this gateway
and who finds him just then mrs. Coulter
his old flame he's like hey come with me
I'm gonna take down the Magisterium and
he starts talking like not just the
Magisterium but he wants to take out the
authority himself help me create a new
Republic of heaven oh wow Azrael that's
a bold idea these two share a top of the
world passionate kiss but in the end
she's like no no I've made my decision
I'm gonna stay here and work with the
Magisterium cuz that's the best way to
protect our daughter
and so Lord Asriel steps off through the
portal to a new world by refines poor
roger and seems like the severing fully
killed him it's super sad and now she
has to find out what dust is what's in
these other worlds what's going on so
Lyra steps through the portal alright to
cutting it back and forth with will over
in our world he was just kind of
randomly walking around followed a cat
back behind the wall to the portal that
more boreal always uses he's kind of
like what the heck is this
interdimensional rip in space-time I
guess I'll just walk through it so Lyra
and we'll both traveling to new worlds
and that's how season 1 comes to an end
if you like my recaps hit that subscribe
button I'm bringing you the best recaps
of TV and movies so don't miss out
[Music]